---
title: 30K in the bag
date: 2024-02-24 18:20:00 -500
categories: [elden ring,milestone]
tags: [portfolio,stocks,spreads,puts,elden ring,options,block,nvidia,earnings,topuria, ufc 298]
---

# 30K in the bag

This is a celebration post, and I'm only discussing wins. 

[30 Bands February 23rd at market open](/assets/30k02232024.png)

Right after 9:30 on Friday the options price updated at market open and my portfolio jumped to just over $30,000 because of my SQ position. Like I predicted in my previous post the market opened and my SQ call debit spreads jumped to $500 a piece at market open, and I sold all 4 of them for an average credit of $485.

[My portfolio breakdown](/assets/collateralbreakdown02232024.png)

As for the future of my portfolio, I’ll be out of everything except my Amazon leaps by March 15. By then I’m hoping there will be a little more clarity in the market, since I want to start developing weekly or monthly income strategies in conjunction with buying some stocks. Currently my portfolio is $9,361.05 in cash and $21,000 in options collateral with $17,000 of that being from my Amazon $170 short put. For right now I want to sit back and watch to see for future opportunities in the market since I haven’t had my eye on anything too special right now. I’m uncertain to see where Nvidia goes from here, so I think that Amazon and Google are better tech buys for the moment. I am  confident in the market overall and think that QQQ is a great buy right now, and if I can get SPY for under $500 that would be a great investment as well.

[ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ](/assets/volkout.png)

Brother, Topuria fucking did it, starched him cold. I said Topuria needed a bad version of Volk but not I don’t know man. Topuria is just so dangerous and Volk just couldn’t hurt him with anything, Volk didn’t even look bad he won that first round then after blocking four shots in a combo, he got slept by the fifth and followed up on with the sixth. Topuria whoever they put him against makes me so excited whether it’s Holloway, Suga Sean, Yair, or even Islam. As for Volk I really want him to take some time off to recover from the back to back knockouts, if he retires now he’s going down as one of the best of all time, but If he picks the right fights like Aljo I’d love to see him fight again.

[My live reaction to the Elden Ring trailer](/assets/eldenreaction.png)

Easily the best thing to happen to me this week was the release of the Elden Ring DLC gameplay trailer, it’s one of those games where the trailer doesn’t do it justice if you don’t play the games. For me Elden Ring is one of if not the best game released in the last ten years, it’s one of my favorites of all time and it’s the culmination of the best features in all of the FromSoftware games. In this DLC we, the tarnished, will be traveling to the Land of Shadows in search of Miquella, the missing demigod. I can’t wait for June 21st to see what FromSoftware is cooking up in terms of bosses, weapons, locations, visuals and story. It was so awesome when the trailer dropped because I just had a feeling it was going to come and it’s been two years since the game was released. I’m going to go play some Elden Ring now.

[My positions going into this week](/assets/positions02262024.png)

I’m not a financial advisor, this isn’t financial advice.


