---
title: Laundering TGR and Russia Oh My
date: 2024-12-18 11:00:00 -500
categories: [russia, sanctions]
tags: [putin, russia, economics, banking, credit, loans, ukraine, crypto, tether, usdt, tgr, biden, sanctions]
---

#

A multinational effort between the U.S., Britain, France, Ireland, and the United Arab Emirates has led to 84 arrests and the seizure of over $25 million in cash and cryptocurrency. This serves as an expansion of “Joint Statement by the G7 Announcing Further Economic Costs on Russia” authored March 11, 2022 where President Biden, the United States, and their allies in the G7 express a unified economic stand against Vladimir Putin’s war of choice against the sovereign nation of Ukraine. In Biden’s statement on the G7 he declares that Russia cannot grossly violate international law and expect to benefit from being part of the international economic order. As of the 4th of December 2024, the U.S. The Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) sanctioned five individuals and four business entities that are associated with or utilize the TGR group to evade sanctions. The statement from the OFAC reads “Through the TGR Group, Russian elites sought to exploit digital assets—in particular U.S. dollar-backed stablecoins—to evade U.S. and international sanctions, further enriching themselves and the Kremlin,” said Acting Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence Bradley T. Smith, “The United States, alongside our allies and partners, remains committed to disrupting any effort by Russia to use digital assets or other illicit financial schemes to accrue, store, and transfer their ill-gotten gains."

As of April 15, 2021, President Joe Biden passed the Executive Order (E.O.) 14024 titled “Blocking Property With Respect To Specified Harmful Foreign Activities of the Government of the Russian Federation” to give the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, and the Attorney General the ability to sanction entities or individuals blocking all properties, interests in properties, transfers, payments, exports, and withdrawals. These sanctions are targeted at any person or entity directly or indirectly responsible for or complicit in activities on behalf of, or for the benefit of the Government of the Russian Federation. These activities include but are not limited to malicious cyber-enabled activities, interference in foreign and domestic elections, actions undermining democratic processes and institutions, transnational corruption, sanction evasion, operating as a board member or official of a sanctioned entity, and contribution or provision of funds or services to the benefit of someone blocked under this executive order.

The sanctioned individuals include George Rossi, Elena Chirkinyan, Andrejs Bradens, Khadzi-Murat Dalgatovich Magomedov, and Nikita Vladimirovich Krasnov. The sanctioned entities include Moscow Russia-based TGR Partners, UK-based TGR Corporate Concierge LTD, UAE-based TGR DWC-LLC, Thailand-based Siam Expert Trading Company Limited, and Wyoming-based Pullman Global is currently in the process of being confirmed as to whether is it owned 50% or more by Andrejs Bradens whose property operations are blocked by sanctions under to Executive Order (E.O.) 14024. 

The TGR Group represents a vast network with the goal of sanction evasion, money laundering, and obfuscation of illicit activities of its clients. Many of the group’s operations were facilitated through digital assets primarily the stablecoin Tether (USDT) which is the most actively traded cryptocurrency in terms of volume. Tether is the primary cryptocurrency substitute for the U.S. dollar on crypto exchanges such as Binance, Coinbase, Crypto.com, and Kraken to name a few. Additionally Tether is used for deposits and withdrawals on many online gambling sites such as Stake, BetOnline, and JackBit. Stablecoins are a form of cryptocurrency where the price is pegged to a specific asset, in this case, Tether’s value is pegged to the U.S. Dollar, to maintain the targeted value stablecoins must have adequate reserves. Tether has had a history of regulatory malpractice, in October 2021, Tether Holdings Limited, Tether Limited, Tether Operations Limited, and Tether International Limited violated the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA) and Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) regulations. They settled charges against them for making untrue or misleading statements and omissions of material fact in connection with the U.S. Dollar Tether Token (USDT) stablecoin and were ordered to pay a civil monetary penalty of $41 million. According to the CFTC Tether had stated that the value of the coin was pegged to fiat currency and was 100% backed by corresponding fiat assets including USD and Euros, Tether falsely maintained that they had an “equivalent amount of corresponding fiat currency” in reserves to back every USDT in circulation. In reality, Tether only had sufficient fiat in its reserves to fully back USDT tether tokens for 27.6% of the 26-month sample gathered from 2016 through 2018. This order from the CFTC found that “from at least June 1, 2016, to February 25, 2019, Tether misrepresented to customers and the market that Tether maintained sufficient U.S. dollar reserves to back every USDT in circulation with the “equivalent amount of corresponding fiat currency” held by Tether and “safely deposited” in Tether’s bank accounts.” Tether has found itself as the focal point of another case of financial subterfuge where the maintenance of the stablecoin’s value for holders is an ancillary concern; instead, it serves as a vehicle for money laundering as opposed to a transparent low volatility cash alternative.

George Rossi, believed to be the primary owner of TGR Group, founded TGR Partners and is the non-executive director at TGR Corporate Concierge LTD, both these entities are amongst the sanctioned entities pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 14024. The network created by Rossi allows for the placement, layering, and integration of illicit financial operations into the global financial system. Rossi has also used OFAC-sanctioned Garantex OU, which is a Russian cryptocurrency exchange to process USDT transactions after the date of the sanction designation.

Elena Chirkinyan, a subordinate of Rossi, a decision maker within the TGR Group, partner at TGR partners, Chief Executive Officer of TGR Corporate Concierge LTD, and manager of TGR DWC-LLC. Chirkinyan was involved with Russian money launderer Ekaterina Zhadanova, leader of Smart Group, to obfuscate the source of Russian client’s funds that were used to purchase properties in the UK. Chirkinyan’s involvement with Zhadanova included transactions where USDT was sent to a cryptocurrency address held by Zhadanova in return for cash that was sent to the TGR Group.

Andrejs Bradens who is associated with multiple TGR companies, Siam Expert Trading Company Limited, along with the previously mentioned Wyoming-based Pullman Global Solutions LLC. Bradens serves as the director and owner of TGR Corporate Concierge LTD where Chirkinyan serves as CEO. 

Ekaterina Zhadanova was designated for sanctions under Executive Order (E.O.) 14024 as of November 3, 2023, for operating in the Russian Federation’s financial services sector; her designation was targeted for laundering and moving funds through digital assets in service to Russian elites. Since she was already sanctioned two of her affiliates, Russian nationals, Khadzi-Murat Dalgatovich Magomedov and Nikita Vladimirovich Krasnov are both sanctioned pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 14024. Magomedov is one of Zhadanova’s key co-conspirators. The two of them operated to conduct illicit activity throughout the United Kingdom and internationally including bulk cash hand-overs and deliveries, and cryptocurrency money laundering transactions where Magomedov would broker these transactions and Zhadanova would fulfill them receiving a commission. They likely used TGR Corporate Concierge LTD and TGR partners to facilitate monetary transfers like cash for USDT transactions and to facilitate invoice payments to integrate the cash flows into business operations. Krasnov, Zhadanova’s second affiliate to be sanctioned pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 14024 for scheming with her using a luxury watch company for trade-based money laundering and converting large amounts of cash into cryptocurrency that would be deposited into cryptocurrency wallets in Zhadanova’s name. According to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, both of these individuals are responsible for materially assisting, and providing financial, material, and or technological support.

The group and its affiliate’s operations spanned 30 countries including the U.S., Britain, mainland Europe, the Middle East, and South America. According to the U.S. Department of the Treasury the violations of the sanctioned individuals and entities include “the laundering of funds associated with sanctioned entities; providing an unregistered service to exchange cash and cryptocurrency; the receipt of cash and making the value available to clients in the form of cryptocurrency; providing a prepaid credit card service; and, obfuscating the source of funds to allow high-net-worth Russian nationals to purchase property in the United Kingdom.” The G7’s economic stand against Russia for its unprovoked invasion of Ukraine, has led actors on behalf of the Russian Federation to clandestinely operate to launder funds and evade sanctions; the TGR Group along the with the mentioned individuals sanctioned pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 14024 are these such actors.



https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy2735

https://finance.yahoo.com/news/russia-related-sanctions-target-illicit-154832376.html 

https://ofac.treasury.gov/faqs/topic/6626 

https://ofac.treasury.gov/media/57936/download?inline 

https://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/8450-21 

https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/11/joint-statement-by-the-g7-announcing-further-economic-costs-on-russia/ 


