---
title: UFC 301 is dogshit and I feel bad for Pantoja
date: 2024-03-25 16:15:00 -500
categories: [ufc,flyweight]
tags: [pantoja,jose aldo,ufc 301,ufc 300]
---

## No finance today

Alexandre Pantoja, the Flyweight (125 lbs.) Champion, will be facing off against tenth ranked Steve Erceg in Brazil for UFC 301. Erceg is coming off of a crazy countershot KO of Matt Schnell who was ranked ninth at the time. Both of these dudes are excellent fighters, but the card itself is super drained of name value; they had to pay Jose Aldo a bag to come out of retirement and fight on the card in order to make it a little more attractive. It’s sad because Brazil is a country that has always been at the forefront of MMA and it feels weird that this card is lacking name value along with highly ranked Brazilian fighters. In my opinion they planned for Alex Pereira versus Jamahal Hill for the Light Heavyweight belt (205 lbs.) to be the main event of this card which would have made it jump off the page significantly more since those guys are more established stars, both former champions and it’s a big enough fight to headline UFC 300. They likely moved this fight to 300 since it was more imperative for 300 to have a banger and they had no better options available. 

It’s just very unfortunate for Pantoja that he is going to have to do all the work to sell this card if he wants to make a bag.

When a fighter is a fighter as the current champion they are entitled to a percentage of the pay-per-view (PPV) sales. As a fighter in the UFC this is your chance to make the most money you can in your contract, unfortunately your title reign does not last long most of the time. The more stacked the card, the higher the PPV sales, the bigger check the champion gets.

It bums me out that we couldn’t get a little more on this card, since it will almost certainly be full price. I think the UFC would be able to increase sales of PPV events if they had cheaper events with a little less starpower, because where things stand now everyone will be pirating UFC 301. I’m curious to see how much Pantoja actually makes, but I’d guess it’ll be about $500k-$600k. The sport is so evolved now that any of the guys could be skilled enough to win it. Pantoja has been showing that he’s at the top of the division, but his title fights with Moreno and Royval were close, I don’t know how long he’ll be able to hold the belt without increasing the gap between him and the competition. Erceg has great boxing and power so Pantoja needs to be careful. 

The fight I am most excited for outside of the main event is obviously Jose Aldo versus Jonathan Martinez. Jose is an all time great and it would be awesome to see him get it done, but Martinez has a very similar style to a younger Jose with lots of leg kicks.

I think Caio Borralho vs Paul Craig is going to be the sleeper fight of the night. I love watching both of those guys fight, and Craig is actually very entertaining and active on the ground. I think Borralho will win since he’s a bit more versatile of a fighter with the edge in striking, but if Craig proves to be significantly better on the ground he definitely has the tools to get a submission.
