---
title: Rough Transcript & Data Summary of Technical Info from Jerome Powell’s Speech at the Economic Club of Chicago on April 16, 2025
date: 2025-05-05 11:00:00 -500
categories: [powell, economy]
tags: [jpow, america, economics, banking, credit, loans, fed, biden, trump, inflation, tariffs, unemployment]
---

# Rough Transcript & Data Summary of Technical Info from Jerome Powell’s Speech at the Economic Club of Chicago on April 16, 2025

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1o_9kO0zZQg&t=2459s 

Jerome Powell 16th Chair of the Federal Reserve: Appointed to the board of the Fed by President Obama in 2012, elevated to Chair of the Fed by Trump in 2018, renominated by President Biden in 2021.

2024: Economy grew 2.4%, unemployment ran in the 4%, inflation came down to the mid 2%, i.e. 2.5%.

2025: Trade policy changes will move the Fed away from their price stability goals for at least the balance of this year or not make any progress. Trade policy changes will likely lead to increases in inflation and unemployment. Some part of those tariffs will come to be paid by the public.

## Labor Market:

Labor market is still near max employment, inflation has come down a great deal but is still running above 2% goal. Growth has slowed in the first quarter in contrast to last year’s solid pace. “Despite strong motor vehicle sales overall consumer spending appears to have grown modestly.” Strong imports in the first quarter seem to reflect attempts by businesses to get ahead of potential tariffs that are expected to weigh on GDP growth. Surveys of households and businesses reflect a “sharp decline in sentiment and elevated uncertainty about the outlook largely reflecting trade policy concerns.”

Outside forecasts for the full year are coming down.

We’re seeing slowing yet still positive growth.

Non-farm payrolls grew 150,000 jobs per month in the first three months of this year even though jobs growth has slowed since last year.

Ratio of new job openings to unemployed job seekers remains just over 1 and the labor market is not a significant source of inflationary pressure.

Wage growth has begun to moderate but is still outpacing inflation

## Price Stability Mandate:

Inflation has significantly eased from pandemic highs of 2022 without the painful rise in unemployment that commonly accompanies efforts to bring down high inflation.

Total headline PCE prices rose 2.3% over the 12 months ending in march and excluding the volatile foods and energy categories Core Prices increased 2.6%.

“The new administration is making substantial policy changes in four distinct areas: trade, immigration, fiscal policy, and regulation. These policies are still evolving and their effect on the economy remains highly uncertain.”

“The level of tariff increases announced so far is significantly larger than anticipated and the same is likely to be true of the economic effects which will include higher inflation and slower growth. Both survey and market based measures of near term inflation have moved up significantly with survey participants pointing to tariffs. Survey measurements of longer term inflation for the most part appear to remain well anchored as well.”

“Tariffs are highly likely to generate at least a temporary rise in inflation. Inflationary effects could also be more persistent avoiding that outcome will depend on the size of the effects, on how long it takes for them to pass fully to prices and ultimately on keeping long term inflation expectations well anchored.”

“Without price stability we cannot achieve long periods of strong labor market conditions that benefit all americans.”

If dual mandate goals of price stability and unemployment are in tension with one another we would evaluate the severity and time horizon of rectifying each mandate.

The Fed requires greater clarity before making any changes to their policy stance.

## Interview:

Events guided by the Fed state by interviewer Raghuram Rajan: The Pandemic, Dash for Cash in March 2020, The Great Inflation, Banking Crisis around Silicon Valley Bank, and over the last year a Fed engineered softlanding.

JPMorgan has shifted to estimating the probability of a recession to about 60%

Question: Some of the effects of tariffs will be transitory, but perhaps they will give room for firms to raise prices. Rajan goes on to mention tariffs from Trump's first firm leading to dryer prices increasing in tandem with washing machine price increases. Washing machines were tariffed however dryers were not but dryer pricing increased as well. “What’s your sense about the effects of tariffs on inflation? What would make them more persistent and what would make them have effects on growth?”

JPOW: “One tariff comes in and gets passed along to prices and raises inflation but it’s just a one time thing and that can happen but it depends on three things. One of these things is the size of the effects, the tariffs are larger than forecasters estimated even in the upside case. Second is how long until tariffs have their effects on inflation to the extent that it takes longer and longer which raises inflation companies come to expect higher inflation begets higher inflation. You have to keep inflation expectations well anchored. Our role is to make sure that this is a one time increase in prices and not an ongoing inflation process.”

Question 2: “What about the effects of tariffs on quantities, with the level of tariffs that have currently been applied on China there’s a fear that the supply chain may be disrupted, that firms may not be able to import their relevant stuff from China given the level of prices. If it turns into a supply shock would the Fed’s response be different than if it was primarily something that just affected prices?”

JPOW: “This uncertainty as to the pieces of imported goods is just a huge issue. If you look back at the pandemic there was a shortage of semiconductors and that led to a shortage of cars in a time of extremely high car demand and it was a prolonged shortage because production couldn’t keep up which is one of the things that led to an extended period of inflation. When you think of supply disruptions that is the kind of thing that can take time to resolve and it can lead what would be a one time inflation shock to perhaps be more extended and we would worry about that. In this case you can look at the car companies and their supply chains are likely to be disrupted significantly and that process will take some years extending the inflationary process. All of this is highly uncertain we’re thinking before the tariffs have their effects about how they might affect the economy and that's why we’re waiting to see what the policies ultimately are and then we can make a better assessment as to what the economic effects will be.”

Question 3: “Let’s move to immigration, you talked about the labor markets being in reasonable equilibrium right now. What we've seen over the last few months and the last months of the previous administration continues into this administration is immigration has fallen off considerably, what’s your sense on how that will affect the labor market.”

JPOW: “Part of why growth was so strong in the last couple of years was just very high levels of immigration and those people went to work, the economy hired them, there was a lot of demand and we were still working off the labor shortage. What happened since the prior administration changed their policy immigration has fallen sharply and therefore the growth of workers has really stopped it’s really stagnant but at the same time demand for workers has also fallen, so payroll job creation has also fallen and they’ve kind of fallen in tandem which is why the unemployment rate has been pretty stable for about a year. So in a way demand and coincidentally perhaps to some extent demand and supply for workers has fallen in terms of the effect on the labor market. Right now we’re still at full employment and labor force participation is still strong. Wages have now moved back down to levels that are now pretty sustainable given an assumption about productivity. So the labor market’s in a really good place. Longer term the effects of immigration are not thought to matter much for inflation. The effects on demand and supply will more or less cancel each other out. So we wouldn’t expect there to be a big impact on inflation.”

Question 4:” You’ve seen in recent weeks substantial talk about layoffs in government as well as freezes in research establishments and universities and in jobs. How soon and how big will this be in its impact on labor markets?”

JPOW: “Of course the people being laid off in government is very significant to them, we don’t know how big that’s going to be. Right now it’s not big enough to affect a workforce of 170 million people materially. In terms of the cutbacks in funding for science and things like that we do see in areas in particular in cities that have a lot of universities and research hospitals and research institutions we’re really hearing significant layoffs and significant impacts on employment. I don’t know how much that will total up to. And of course, in addition cutting back on scientific research may have implications for economic growth, for productivity, for health, for all kinds of things, but those are very difficult to estimate in real time.”

Question 5: “Given that we’re talking about the future, you may be confronted in the not so distant future with both higher levels of unemployment as well as potentially higher inflation. And of course the policies that each one requires could be different. You talked a little bit at the podium about how the Fed would see these two and how it would address it. Just giving you a chance again to elaborate on that.”

JPOW: “Most of the time when the economy is weak, inflation is low and unemployment is high and both of those call for lower interest rates to support activity and vice versa. So most of the time the two goals are not in tension and they’re not really in tension now. The labor market is still strong but the you know shock that we’re experiencing the impulses we’re seeing and feeling are for higher unemployment and higher inflation, and you know our tool only does one of those two things at the same time. So it’s a difficult place for central banks to be in terms of what to do. The best thing we can do is we actually have a little provision in our consensus statement, which is the thing that we vote on to embody how we approach these questions. What we say is we will look at how far each of the two and how far the economy is from each of those two goals and then we’ll ask might there be different paces at which they would approach those goals. We’ll look at those things and think about them and we’ll make what will no doubt be a very difficult judgment. Again, we’re not experiencing that now, but we could well be in that situation as I mentioned in my remarks.”

Question 6: “ I just wanted to pick up on a word that is often used today, uncertainty. As a respondent to a Dallas Fed survey said, ‘I’ve never felt more uncertainty about my business in my entire 40 plus years career’. The worry today is not just about immediate policy uncertainty but an entire change in the US’s economic philosophy. Not just policy uncertainty so to speak but structural uncertainty. You know one of the effects as you’ve pointed out of higher levels of uncertainty is that firms postpone investment. For instance, even after the tariffs stabilize, firms that contemplate reshoring production facilities will hesitate not knowing if the tariffs will be reversed in the future, maybe by the next administration. How do you take such longer term uncertainty into account in your policies?”

JPOW: “Let me just agree that we’re what comes back very strongly and everyone will understand this these are very fundamental policy changes in you know long held in some case policies in the United States and there’s not any real experience, the Smoot-Hawley Tariffs were not actually this large and they were 95 years ago so there isn’t a modern experience of how to think about this and business and households are saying in surveys that they are experiencing incredibly high uncertainty. There’s a lot of research, some of it from the Fed showing that does lead to businesses and households stepping back from decisions, which of course makes common sense. You hope that that’s something that you go through a phase and then you know what the things become more certain and therefore people can resume normal economic activities given their understanding of what is the new normal. I mean your question really is what if the uncertainty remains high I think that’s a difficult environment. I think people’s expected rates of return would have to be higher. To me think it would weigh on investment just in general, if the United States were to become a jurisdiction where risks are just structurally higher going forward that would make us less attractive as a jurisdiction. We don’t know that at this point but I think that would be the effect.”

Question 7: “Well let me turn to financial markets, we’ve seen some volatility especially stock market volatility the levels of the VIX are up to the levels they were during the early days of the pandemic coming off somewhat now. Some people believe the Fed will intervene if the stock market plummets, the so-called Fed put, are they correct?”

JPOW: “I’m going to say no with an explanation. What I think is going on in the markets is markets are processing what’s going on particularly the trade policy and really the question is where’s that going to come in where’s that going to land and we don’t know that yet and until we know that you can’t really make informed assessments that would still be highly uncertain once you know what the policies are it’ll still be highly uncertain the economic effects will be. So markets are struggling with a lot of uncertainty and that means volatility. But having said that markets are functioning, you know, conditional on being in such a challenging situation, markets are doing what they’re supposed to do. They’re orderly and they’re functioning just about as you would expect them to function.

Question 8: “So we’ve seen volatility also in the bond market and at a time when usually there’s a flight to safety we saw yields on the German bond and the Japanese government bond come down but we saw yields on US treasuries go up. What do you attribute this to?”

JPOW: So I would just say the same thing. I think it’s very hard to know in real time. I’ve had a lot of experience with significant moves, for example in the bond market where there’s a narrative that people land on and then two months later you look back and go that was completely wrong. So I think it’s very premature to say exactly what’s going on. Clearly there’s some delivering going on among hedge funds on levered trades and things like that. It’s also  again it’s the markets processing historically unique developments and with great uncertainty and I think you’ll probably see continued volatility. But I wouldn’t try to be definitive about exactly what’s causing that. I will just say markets are orderly and they’re functioning kind of as you would expect them to in this time of high uncertainty. 

Question 9: “So the Fed in its last meeting slowed the pace of shrinking of its balance sheet. Was this driven by uncertainty about how much reserves and liquidity the market needed and you wanted to take a little more time to find that out? And on the flip side you said that the market was orderly. What if market disruptions emerge would the Fed intervene?”

JPOW: “We think that reserves are still abundant, so we don’t think we’re close to the point particularly close to the point where we would stop. But we were facing a situation in which for other reasons there were going to be big flows into and out of reserves which had to do with the debt ceiling and the Treasury general account. For those of you that are treasury market people, that’ll make sense. But while those big flows are happening over a period of 6 months we would actually be shielded from being able to see evidence that we were or were not getting close to the level of less abundant reserves. And so we decided to slow the pace. We thought about pausing and instead we debated. It was one of these great debates that we have at the FOMC. We decided to slow the pace instead and people really came to see the merits of that because you know the slower we go the smaller the balance sheet can get without disruptions and we want that process to continue and now it’s at quite a slow pace. So we think that's a really good thing. So that means it can go on for a longer amount of time and we’ll be able to reach, very carefully, what we think is the right level of reserves. Still plenty of reserves.”

Question 10: “What about the international dollar-based system? With all these disruptions, do you stand ready to supply dollars to central banks as you’ve done in the past when there’s been a global shortage of dollars? “

JPOW: “Just for everyone’s knowledge, we have standing dollar swap lines with five large central banks and they go to the jurisdictions where there are big overseas dollar funding markets and in fact those are overseas markets where for example a European or Asian institution is buying an asset backed security that is backed by loans to American consumers. So in effect these are loans to American consumers and we support that. We want to make sure that dollars are available. They need dollar funding to hold those dollar assets. So the way it works is when needed, we lend to the central bank in dollars and they pay us back in dollars. They then pay in their currency, they lend on in dollars and so we take no credit risk or anything like that and it supports dollar funding markets. Dollar funding markets are very sensitive during times of crisis and it’s very helpful. The reason we do it is it’s really good for US consumers. So we’ll continue to do that just as part of the dollar being a reserve currency, the reserve currency most important and we will do that.”

Question 11: “You mentioned amongst the issues you were focused on was the US fiscal situation. Well, clearly US sovereign debt continues to rise and what are your thoughts on the longer term implications for interest rates and economic stability? How much further can we go in terms of national debt before we cross a line that might be unsustainable in the long term?”

JPOW: So the US Federal debt is on an unsustainable path. It’s not at an unsustainable level and no one really knows how much further we can go. Other countries over time have gone much farther but we’re now running very large deficits at full employment and this is a situation that we very much need to address. Sooner or later we’ll have to and sooner is better than later. In terms of my time working on these issues, it’s not the Fed’s issue, but if you look at a pie chart of federal spending, the biggest parts and the parts that are growing are Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and now interest payments. That’s really where the work has to be done. Those are issues that can only be touched on a bipartisan basis. You know neither party can figure out what to do without both parties being at the table. So that’s critical. All of domestic discretionary spending, which is essentially where 100% of the conversation is, is small as a percentage of federal spending and is declining as a percentage of federal spending. So when people are focused on cutting domestic spending, they’re not actually working on the problem. Domestic discretionary spending is already going down. I just I like to make that point because so much of the dialogue that the politicians offer is about domestic discretionary spending which is not the issue.”

Question 12: “Well let’s turn to stability and regulation. Turning to the US financial sector we still have some concerns about distressed commercial real estate loans on bank balance sheets whether they've been fully dealt with so far. There’s some sense that they haven't. Add to that the very rapid growth in various forms of private credit over the last few years which arguably haven’t been tested by a full-blow recession. How would you put the resilience of our financial institutions at this point and their ability to weather potentially uncertain times?”

JPOW: “So I think our banking system is well capitalized with liquidity and is quite resilient right now to the kinds of shocks that it may face. I do believe that in terms of commercial real estate, this has been the case. We've been working on this for four or five years now. There are some banks it’s mostly medium and small size banks, which have elevated concentrations of commercial real estate. Some of it is troubled and we’ve been working to make sure that those banks have a plan, have capital and can absorb the losses that they’re doing. So, that’s been going on for some time. The very largest banks don’t tend to have high concentrations. So, this is a problem that we have known would take years to work through, but we’re really well into the process of working through it. In terms of the non-bank financial sector, it’s grown enormously. The provision of credit by non-banks has grown just really fast. Most of it has been funded though with a private equity-like structure where it’s limited partners who are signed up for ten years to a general partner to invest that money. They’re not depositors who can run. You know, your money is committed and that’s so that funding model is kind of runproof. That isn’t some law of nature though, so you do start to see shorter term funding creeping in. To your point Ragu, this very fast growing and now quite large private credit part of the economy has not really been through a significant credit event; it's really grown since the pandemic. And so, just for that reason and for how fast it’s growing, we have a close eye on it it doesn’t have the same prudential regulation though that the banking system has so we’re watching it carefully and you know as I mentioned it’s a more stable funding source to extend it’s institutional investors signed up for a long period but we’re watching carefully.”

Question 13: “Wearing my banking research hat banks are actually also involved in funding these institutions in a big way. We do know the administration wants to relax regulations in many areas, one of which may well be banking. What can you tell us about the ‘Basel 3 Endgame’ so to speak, which as you know at this point is primarily focused on additional capital for the large banks?”

JPOW: “You know the Fed view and my view is that we should proceed to complete the Basel 3 accord and we would have to do that and would look forward to doing that in conjunction with the FDIC and OCC but our view is and I think the bank’s view as well is we should complete that you need international minimum standards. That’s kind of a common good and you know we’re not bound by them. The United States has plenty of input into what that accords contain. So our view is strongly that we should complete those and we could do it relatively quickly. We’re not so very far away from what would be a good I think outcome.”

Question 14: “Well let me move to something which is more about technological change and new kinds of instruments, cryptocurrencies, how do you see the potential for more favorable regulations coming on them and potential risks from that for the system?”

JPOW: “So we went through a wave of failures and fraud and things like that where the headlines for a couple of years and I think what you see now is and during that period by the way we were trying to work we worked with Congress to try to get a framework a legal framework for stablecoins which would have been a nice place to start. We were not successful. I think that the climate is changing and you’re moving into sort of more mainstreaming of that whole sector. So, Congress is again looking at both the Senate and the House are looking at a framework, a legal framework for stablecoins. You know depending on what’s in it, that’s a good idea. We need that. There isn’t one now. And stablecoins are a product, a digital product that could actually have fairly wide appeal and should contain consumer protections of typical sorts and transparency. That’s what the Senate and the House are working on. So, that’s a positive thing. We took a pretty conservative and other bank regulators took an even more conservative perspective on the guidance and rules we imposed on banks. I think there’ll be some loosening of that and I think we’ll try to do it in a way that preserves safety and soundness but that you know permits and fosters appropriate innovation but that does so in a way that again doesn’t put consumers at risk in ways they don’t understand or make banks less safe and sound.”

Question 15: “You have a policy review underway. Now surveys recently tell us there seems to be a distinction between the rise in the level of prices which is what the public seems to worry a lot about and the rate of increase in prices which certainly they worry about in passing but the Fed worries much more about that is the rate of inflation. So even though we’re coming down to 2%. People remember that over the last few years there's been over 20% increase in prices. So as you start thinking about the policy review, is there any thought about how you might want to address this sort of challenge that it’s the path of prices as much as the rate of change which matters?”

JPOW: “First of all, you’re right and I think the public is right. When we say inflation is back down to 2 percent 2 and a half percent and we think that’s a good thing. It is a good thing, but if you’re paying 20% more than you were paying in 2021, that doesn’t help you much. You’re still paying a lot more than you used to be paying for the necessities of life. So it’s just another way of saying people hate inflation and it’s easy to understand why. The world we’re living in, prices don’t go down in the aggregate except in extreme times that we don’t want to court. We couldn’t have a framework where we’re going to bring prices down by 10% or something that’s not something we’ll be looking at. You know, we’re essentially looking at the best way to foster 2% inflation over time. And you know the thing we did back in, the changes we made in 2020 were really innovations around what to do when you’re stuck near zero. Now we’re well above zero. And it, you know, it may be that we still need to have in our framework a way to deal with that, but perhaps the main case is not one where you’re dealing with the effective lower bound. And that would be a framework that looks a lot more like the one that we had before 2020.”

Question 16: “Now one of the tools you brought in to deal with the zero lower bound was quantitative easing, but you’ve also used quantitative easing to fix disruptions in the financial markets. Are you going to be more specific about what your objective is with quantitative easing as you go through this review?”

JPOW: “So, in the beginning, we’re using it for financial market function. That was the case with the global financial crisis and with the pandemic. We did try to explain ourselves through the pandemic and our explanations did change but I think it’s fair to say we might’ve done a better job of being clearer about why we were doing it and that’s something that we’re aware of and looking at.”

Question 17: “No discussion is complete without talking about AI. With AI coming fast and furious it could affect productivity, it could affect employment, there are some people who say we will see for the first time technological unemployment in a serious way with AI. What are your thoughts about it and how will it impact the Fed going forward?”

JPOW: “So like everyone who has been exposed to what it’s capable of it’s just, it’s beyond I mean I started thinking about it as like a better version of Google, but ti’s not. It’s like a better version of a person, you know? I mean it can do amazing things. And so the question is all through the 250 years of technological innovation, technology evolves and people worry that it’s going to replace human labor and people are going to be unemployed and that hasn’t been the case. It may be the case in the short run, but in the long run, what it’s done is raise human productivity and therefore living standards. So is this going to be the case where it eliminates more jobs than it creates and we just don’t know. I mean you come back in 20 years, will it be the case that just people are much more productive in their work because of AI or will it be the case that AI has just replaced a lot of people? And I think it’s very hard to say, but it truly is remarkable in what it’s capable of. And it’s you know, we just had a demonstration by a Wharton professor recently and he was speaking to it like a person and it kind of responds like a person and the things that it can do are really amazing. So and by the way, this is the early days. You know they’re talking about even the next couple of years will bring more dramatic breakthroughs. So I think it’s one of the two or three things most likely to bring dramatic change to the economy all around the world in the next 20 years. And I’d say very hard to say how it shakes out.”

Question 18: “Let me turn to your job. An important man once said of your job, ‘it’s the greatest job in government. You show up to office once a month and you say, let’s see, flip a coin. And then everybody talks about you like you’re a god.’ What is it that you normally do everyday in the office? Is it fulfilling and dare I say enjoyable? And do you really feel like a god?”

JPOW: “So I agree I think it’s the best job in government, I would agree. I really do enjoy it. Yes. I love the job. It’s a great honor to serve. It’s quite humbling because you know everybody makes mistakes. It’s just the economy is just not very predictable. So all of that is true and you know I do what everybody expects me to do. I read we do a little more reading through as  part of our daily my colleagues and I do part of our daily regime than a typical executive would do. In terms of being a god I would say that we are blessed with a large number of amply compensated critics who would kind of tend to undercut that so we don’t feel like a god.”

Question 19: “So in that office. What are the key indicators you look for? What are the sources of data that you go to as you try and make up your mind?”

JPOW: “So, you know, I’d say start with labor. There’s more labor market data, better reliable labor market data than probably anywhere else. And it’s just a lot of data and it’s new jobs, it’s payroll, it’s wages, it’s participation, you can break all of those down in different categories. It’s a million different things. So there’s a lot of labor market data. It’s a great field, if you’re going into economics because there’s just so much to do. So then we look at the inflation data also I keep track of global developments pretty carefully and I talk to my global counterparts pretty regularly just to stay aware of what’s going on. Financial markets are really important and lately something that we’re paying close attention to as you would expect what’s going on around the world in currency markets, in fixed income markets, in equity markets, all of that. For me though, my background was more in the private sector and you know as an investor and for a significant part of my career and I have to talk to outsiders about what they’re seeing and what they’re dealing with for it to really fit together for me. I know I can look at only so much data and you know to really get the story and the narrative it’s more talking to outsiders and you anecdotal data does help things kind of fit together for me I would say.“

Question 20: ”You told us about speaking with business people last night and getting a sense of what was going on in the Midwest. Let me turn to Fed independence. You’ve reiterated that you intend to stay in office until the end of your term and that certainly reassured many in financial markets. What are the levers the government or legislature have to pressure the Fed and should one worry about threats to the Fed’s independence once you’re gone? So our independence is a matter of law. Congress has in our statute, we’re not removable except for cause. We serve very long terms, seemingly endless terms. So we’re protected in the law. So you know congress could change that law, but I don’t think there’s any danger of that. Fed independence has pretty broad support across both political parties and on both sides of the hill. So, I think that’s not a problem. There’s a supreme court case people will have read probably in today’s journal that at which the Supreme Court may decide whether independent agencies generally whether they’re authorizing laws can contain a provision that prevents the president from firing members of a commision other than for cause and that’s a case that people are talking about a lot, I don’t think that decision will apply to the Fed, but I don’t know. It’s a situation that we’re monitoring carefully. Generally speaking, Fed independence is very widely understood and supported in Washington and in Congress where it really matters. And the point is we can make our decisions and we will only make our decisions based on our best thinking based on our best analysis of the data about what is the way to serve to achieve our dual mandate goals as we can to best serve the American people. That’s the only thing we’re ever going to do. We’re never going to be influenced by any political pressure. People can say whatever they want, that’s fine, that’s not a problem. But we will do what we do strictly without consideration of political or any other extraneous factors.”
